Currently doing my classes from home with noice around in background. It’s bad,because sometimes we even can't avoid.

I'm a little freaked out by the fact I'm now teaching two hour lecture online.
The other class meets more often and is standard,
but how the hell am I going to keep their attention for two hours?

We all know that we are fighting with a pendamic but for a student whose online class starts at 8:30AM in the morning and final sem exams are coming,
isn't it necessary to get some sleep at night which is unable due to cont. Long power cuts all day long.

At this pendamic condition there is no need of takimg exam by the university and
we are facing many difficulties in our online class also .
So please cancel the exam which they are going to conduct on next month.

As all teachers are putting efforts for online class.Parents are okay to pay tuition fee as normal.

Our teachers start online class to complete the syllabus.
But students are not able to understand some teachers,what they are teaching.
And now our state government says that they will take exam during this pendamic!

Apart from study,long time steady looking at screen, makes headache, backpain and even faced much stress,online class effects!!

I’m a student who’s currently doing online classes and it’s so much easier to focus when we have constant breaks,
and if the notes/lectures are posted online, I’m not stressed that I might miss something.

We’re going to cry when we face data problem,it takes much data, Government should think about packages, so that we can do
our classes smoothly!

Taking online classes is also  the first time experience of our faculty members.
Naturally they have made many mistakes. Some of them have uploaded very big audio and video files.
Some of them uploaded very long lectures.
They are also using different platforms.
Gradually they are discovering which is the best platform to use.
The faculty members are also in a learning stage. They need some time to adjust with the system.
But all of them are passing very hard time to prepare and upload the lectures.

Many students are not live in Dhaka,
we are not able to attain online classes because of poor network.

Online class is adding extra frustration to our already frustrated situation,not good.

This pandemic is effecting our mental health as well and doing online assignment,
which would not carry any grade is putting much pressure on us.

Internet Connection is not available and stable in all parts of our country.
Online education is not so simple as it is easier to say.

In this crisis of global pandemic we're facing multiple stress and problems.
Most of the students went outside of Dhaka,
where they are facing poor internet connection due to unavailability of shops from where they can recharge internet.
Many areas are getting locked down.

Besides technical problems, online class is helpful because it's better to learn instead of sitting idle.
We don't need to face session gap.

Teachers are taking classes from home. While they are struggling with using new tools and having pressure to cover all topics.Stress is real.

Because of this pandemic situation of COVID-19 all instritution are closed since March.
Online classes are not sufficient because in online class the video is not clearly visible sometime due to network or technical problem.That time students need to face problem,
because there are some instructors who don't allow us when we disconnected! As if it's obvious to have good network all time , like seriously?

2020 taught me to become stronger and even appreciate the small things that I had.
Which became my comrades in coping up with the stress and pressure of my online class.
Moreover, online class gave me new and good experience with knowledge, worthwhile!

I’m a college student who’s currently doing online classes.It’s so much easier to focus when we have constant breaks,
if the notes/lectures are posted online, I’m not stressed that I might miss something.

Online class introduced me to various platform that are very useful.I explored using them to make my lesson more interactive.

Online class offered me an opportunity to realise, explore and apply a range of technology based
platforms and tools that can aid in making my students' learning experience more engaging in the future.

I learnt a lot and saw some really practical experience for using the apps to attend the online classes.
I like the way we got involved into interactive online classes by using Zoom, Google meet which are a bit challenging in Pendamic yet, chance to learn successfully.

I am grateful to have the chance to perticipate in online class.

Online class started to ensure that there must be a positive impact to move forward educationally in Pendamic.
I am gaining confidence with incorporating educational technologies in my teaching.

The new ways of teaching using different platforms allow learners to discover the learning materials by a interactive  discussion,
It helped to explore how to use tools such as videos to become more independent learners.

Best outcome on horrific pendamic is to moving forward in online classes ever: full of sessions,discussions,
exercises,task to learn more in detail. I am learning and enjoying doing all the learning too.

A positive pace and class activities with new tools for online classes on pendamic.
I am implementing all these in my teaching to give better performance,so that students can learn more elaborately.
So far good experience.

Interactive online classes through Zoom,Google meet and other platforms by perticipation and discuss about course learnings.
I learned how to engage with the students through online classes by asking questions and giving class tasks, assignments so that they can learn better
even using time fruitfully.

I learned about many platform for online class that I did not know about before. The positive aspect is, during this pendamic situation online class helped students
to learn about educational materials through online, we didn't need to risk ourselves and family by attending class physically where the situation is going worse day by day.

In this pendamic situation, online class has introduced with all students and teachers as regular one. It's new for all, especially for the teachers who do not know much about educational technology. The best part is that hard courses are recorded by instructors with video,
so that students can go through again for better understanding. Even helpful for them , who missed lecture due to problems and network.
Most of the instructors are working hard to make it easier and try to make this good learning experience.

Online class is very useful for the students, because it's actually alternative way of regular class during pendamic.
Include with various multimedia tools for the creation of course content,collaborative activities of students,submitting assignments,
assessment and feedback,which will definitely enhance the quality of teaching as well as student learning.

I had a good experience and chance to use time effectively by doing courses through online class and learn in details by solving assignments,
presentation and discussions.

I started taking online class with expectations, but as I got more involve with more discussions to make it better.
I got inroduced more with new platforms, able to use many tools I learned to enhance my teaching practice.

I have taken I have learned new ways to make my class more alive and interactive.

Such an informative google classroom and faculty make it accessible for us.

I found it very helpfull in teaching and definitely enhanced my knowledge and skills related to online education.

I think this online class given us the opportunity to learn about practical teaching with Technology. I have learnt new techniques to teach.
It was an amazing opportunity to improve my teaching skills using technology

I am a professor and this year we were sort of compelled to adapt to online teaching because of COVID-19.
I wanted to learn how to take my teaching online as I had never taught virtually before.
This helped me a lot to learn about the available online tools and it has made my job as a teacher not only easy but also very interesting.
My students are also enjoying technology-enabled learning a lot.

The course instructors provided us with a lot of useful material, like recorded videos of class, papers and technologies.
In addition, thanks to the weekly assessments we, the students had the opportunity to use the proposed technologies by ourselves and to put into practice our ideas.

Online class gavefor the opportunity to learn and interact with many students and teachers by diuscussions.
Online class made confident that I can be successful in my online class.

Good experience for any teacher who would like to get started with online teaching, they get to learn about new platforms for online class.

Overall,online class is good which introduces participants both to some important concepts from the field of Education and to a good array of online tools
which can be incorporated in online teaching.I do think that it should be updated considering the increase in demand in times like these.

I really enjoyed the online course. I thought it was well planned and layed out, easy for me to follow.
The work load(homework,assignment & test)was just enough, so i could finish everything with enough time,
learn about the topics and not feel over loaded and rushed. Pretty good so far.

Overall I liked online class because all lectures, assignments, and tests are straight forward.
A couple things I dislike about the class are that there should be more opportunities,
platform to connect the class which require less data!

Online class was good,sometimes assignments aside from the test gave me a better idea and understanding of the subject for the term.
What I disliked was the surprised test because I found it difficult to explain certain concepts without introducing in some way.
I learned that an online class could be as much work or more than a regular class. However, I still enjoyed it very much.

As genrally , in rural area getting good network is tough to get. So online class was not good for me , I couldn't attend classes on time or if I could then

I am a teacher as senior for many years in a university.Like most of them, I am also new on this online platform.
Actually I was not habituated about many platforms.But for online class I joined with many teachers in several meeting
to ensure about making ourselves better so that students can understand more.We had to think about equally as they are
students who will not be attentive much in online class .So we made class in interactive way by taking question-answer session.
It's a new experience and worthwhile!

I really enjoyed class and the form how it was presented. For me, I learn and retain much through an online class.
This really makes me to search for detail and in return, I retain more information.
I liked the fact you were very clear that more internet research may be necessary for some assignments To be honest,
there is nothing that I disliked about online class, but internet issue was there!

In my area load shedding is a frequent issue,which increase more in bad weather too! During bad weather I can't attend class properly.
If I buy data pack still it's not enough to join through whole time.It shows E,instead of 3G/4G!
That is bad experience,even I want to present in all time during time to learn but for this problrm often I miss important lecture,topic.

During Pendamic that was my first online class. I am looking forward to taking more online classes. The experience of this class has being nothing but positive.
Some course instructors are helpful, they understands the situation. The homework,assignment,quizzes and test were reasonable.

It's true that,to attend online class I had to go to river side or even I was trying so much I climbed a tree for better network. Here in rural area, we don't have that
much good internet speed. So online class was not a good option for me.

I really liked the online option of regular class.The only thing that was a little confusing,at first was all the different resources.
In the beginning I had a hard time. The book pdf,notes and lecture materials made to know the more details.
Just was a little much but as the semester progressed I got the feel of it and benefited from all the information.

I am a teacher of an University.Though sometimes we had to face difficulties for sudden worse internet problem.Other than that online class
is good experience.

Since pendamic started,taking online class is not good decision for them who suffers of financial problems.I bearly got a phone,
my father can't effort more for me.Because his job is not giving benefits now as everything gone through lose.
If the authority gwould give a big scolarship during pendamic it would be a wise decision.Sudden deadline gives us pressure,
atleast they should give us enough time to give tuition fees.

I will say I learned quite a bit in online class. The assignments were very beneficial to the entire learning process.
However, I felt the tests were a bit unexpected (some material was not discussed thoroughly enough). If there was one thing that,
I would recommend to help the class it would be better to provide recorded lecture as well.
I feel like this would have cleared up some of the points that I had neglected to focus on.

When the Lockdown started for few days ,including me most of the people went to village. No one would ever thought that Pendamic will stay so long!
Online class was tough for me as well,because I stay in rural area so the network issue is the major problem. I even couldn't continue any class smoothly for poor network.

I am occupied in a renowned instritution as faculty.Never actually gone through online class experience. So online class is new for almost most of us.
It's hard to understand who are giving concentration in class. Some students really fallen sleep that time. I called by name and asked questions to them,
whether they were giving attention or not. I also give assignments, class test to make them busy like working hard to study peoperly.

Online class is a new experience , but tough for me. My father's job facing problem due to pendamic situation.It's really hard to bear all expenses including my education.
Because comapany is facing loss.But I had to also pay my fees in short time. It would be better if the fees was less during Pendamic

Online class can't be as same as regualr class.But it's a new experience to learn about tools , platform to take class and I learnt a new technique of teaching process.
We had a training session for that.At first it was bit strange to take class as we can't see students are paying attention or not.
So working hard to occupy them in class task with interactive lecture

My father is a day labour.I was studying with scolarship in University.All was okay until pendamic come. Since that time it was pretty hard to bear all expenses within short time.
Online class was not favorable for me , because I had to give extra data cost for classes.I was getting really hard to continue class regularly.
It would be better if data cost was less.

I live in rural area, where better network can't be available always. It's hard to get even I buy good packages.
Online class is not good for all ,as some teachers should understand that everyone can have better network always.
Even if I tried to join , they should consider our problem as well.Some teachers are so rude, as it's normal to not have
slow or bad network.Otherwise, I can learn from online class.

Online class is never be a good alternative of physical regular class. But as pendamic has started, there was no option left without moving forward
with online class.Because nobody knows when it will come to end.We can't just wait by sitting idle for long time.Network is a big issue,it actually
depends wheither you can do class properly or not.Sudden disconnected issue made an disturbance during classes.Because I often miss important words
for that.That's really a struggle during exam time.

I am a teacher in a reputed institution.Online class gave me opportunity to gather a new experience.
It makes a alternative way of regular class in this pendamic situation.As everyone student is not same, so we had to
find a interactive lecture session ,just to know that whether they are focusing on class or not.
We call them by name,ask question and sometimes turn the video on to check.I miss regular class and know that
it can never be same.But it's for the situation,all have to move forward.Students need to understand that.

The situation getting worse day by day.While this time,Students and teachers are doing online class.
This new platform is giving us opportunity to gain knowledge without going outside.

Very effective for them who are doing online class in last semester.Because if we need to sit idle without this option then
we have to waste time and engaged in session gap! Teachers are taking training so that they can teach us more easily.
Recorded video lecture gave us another benefit when we incase miss any important lecture.We can watch it later for better understanding.

I support online class.But many instritution authority who's not caring about students much! They should understand that all are
not financially stable in this situation.Atleast they should think about it and give more time.But many of them fixing deadlines as
students are prepared always to give fees! It creates frustration.

Online class wasn't good for me initially.When the lockdown started,I was in hostel. Due to the situation I had to go hometown for few days.
Then online class started.I couldn't join class properly for poor network. So I missed classes,which brought bad concept about few topics.
But my teacher were discussing about all topics and the topics which had less knowledge concept or difficulties to understand in review class.
They asked to ask questions whenever necessary by interactive session time.So appearantly online class was not bad at all finally.

Initially it was difficulty to cope up if I missed any online class due to network issue or other reason.But then some of teachers
were providing video lectures so that we can understand if we missed any topic or need to understand better.So online were benefial
for me.So online class was good for me.

There are many students who didn't understand the benefit of doing online class with concentration.During online class they tends to
do other stuff while joining session. So we teachers thought about that and introduce a new thing that they have to turn on video
when needed or we asked for. As a teacher, online class was a new experience in alternate of regular class during pendamic.

I am a faculty in an intritution.Online class is a new experience for me endeed.I had to join meetings with others to know detail about it.
We discussed to make it more easy and better.So far, it is good.

I am a student of last semester in under graduation level.During lockdown, it was quite stressful to think about giving loss for the Pendamic,
as intritutions were off.But online class has given me opportinity to learn about courses regularly.I have learned many things through online.
Faculties were helpful.So that was a good experience.

Online class is good for them who had better internet connection.It only needs concentration and dedication to learn things.I gather knowledge
from online class,good endeed!

Due to online class,I had to sit many hours and looking at screen as all tasks were included in online.Which increased my backpain and migrain attack.
So online class made me feel due to excess workload through online.Online class was not good for me.

Online class was good for me. I have learned a lot from online class.Even when I needed to know in detail a specific topic which I have lack of good understanding,
I asked my teacher in class.They were co-operative and helpful throughout the semester. Another advantage was recorded lectures.When we missed any important topic,
we could go through recorded one for better understanding whenever it's necessary.

Online was good endeed during pendamic situation as we don't have to worry about going in contamination.Nobody was prepared for this situation.
Students got chance to move forward rather than sitting idle and gone through year gap.

I am a teacher in an University.When Pendamic started we all gone through that feeling of loosing our lives.At first we thought how we will go in
intritution.But situation was getting worse and lockdown started.Online class was good as it remove our contamination stress.

Online class was good overall.We don't need to physically present in class but can join online class wherever we can.

Online class was not good for me,I had to face a lot trouble during online class.In my local area , internet connection was bad, so several times I had
to reconnect, it waste class time.So often I missed important session.

Online class made me fall in frustration.Most of the time I had to look at screen as all assignment, class , task
atleast we need to be connected online, submit.

I am a student of CSE department.IDue to online class I gone through a new experience.Because I had to use different platform for online class.
I didn't use Zoom ,Google Meet and other applications before in regular way.So beside education, I have knowna about this, pretty good!

At first I had to face problem ,when I missed several classes.Then teachers made recorded lecture session for us so that we can go through again in need.
It was benefical for us endeed.I had good experience overall.

I had a sick patient at home. Due to aware of contamination issue I had to stay home atmost possible.Online class made it easy,because I didn't need
to go outside for class. I can stay at home and join online class. Even can know far better about courses.

Online class was not good for me.I live in a village area.It's normal that we can't get better network.So most of the time I had internet issue.

Did anyone notice the data package rate? I think if the rate is at reasonable everyone could access internet.Government should think about that.
Because everyone ican't effort that regularly.It takes lot of data to do online class.I faced at same situation.Otherwise online class was not bad at all.

My intritution gave us discount for pendamic situation.For online class I didn't feel bored.I enjoyed the classes.When I didn't understand I asked
questions in the class.So concept was clear at time.So far good for me.

I felt online class created more frustration in already frustrated situation.Because of lots assignments,reports,surprise quizes and
term exams in short time.If time duration was more than I didn't feel that much pressure.Online class was bad for me.

If excess pressure is in any tasks , it creates monotonous effect in our life.Online class should be in a good time duration.

Online class removed my tension of year loss in pendamic.So it is beneficial for me with a good experience and lot more learning outcomes.

I am not satisfied by everyone's performance in online class.Students should take the advantage and learn more.
Students should be more concern and attentive.Otherwise I had a good experience of online class.

I was excited of online class.Like everytone it was new for me. I have learned a lot from it,Thank you for the good decision.


